## MONADA DOMINION – OPERATIONAL POLICY AND BUSINESS FRAMEWORK
**KVK registration:** 87782324 (Eindhoven, Netherlands)  
**Entity:** Monada Dominion (MD) 

***

### 1. Introduction

Monada Dominion (MD) operates as an independent legal and development entity providing hardware and software solutions, core architectures, and fully realized products. This document defines the general operational and business policy of Monada Dominion for public reference and governs how MD engages in collaborations, licensing, and development activities.  

This document applies to all repositories, prototypes, and development materials published or maintained by MD.

***

### 2. Ownership and Licensing

All hardware, software, and supporting materials created by MD are protected under Monada Dominion's custom license unless otherwise specified. The full text of this license is publicly available in the repository:  
[https://github.com/Monada-Dominion/operational_documents/blob/main/LICENSE](https://github.com/Monada-Dominion/operational_documents/blob/main/LICENSE)

MD retains full ownership of all core HW/SW architectures and codebases authored within its repositories or commissioned projects, unless an alternative licensing or ownership agreement has been formally signed by MD. This includes, but is not limited to, all architectural frameworks, system integrations, platform designs, and custom code modules developed under MD’s direction.

Unauthorized replication, reproduction, resale, or modification of MD-owned core components is prohibited without explicit written consent from Monada Dominion.

***

### 3. Business Model and Collaboration Terms

MD functions as an independent technology provider. Its business operations follow a project-based, requirement-driven model:

- Clients and partners submit technical or functional requirements.  
- MD delivers prototypes, reference implementations, or finished products that meet agreed-upon specifications.  
- Deliverables may include documentation, APIs, and integration support materials.  
- MD may provide maintenance, updates, and technical support under separate agreements.  
- Design and conceptualization support can be requested but are not standard service offerings and are billed separately.  

Project collaboration is formalized through written agreements specifying rights of use, compensation, deliverables, and maintenance conditions. All agreements follow the MD license framework unless stated otherwise.

***

### 4. Intellectual Property and Usage Rights

Ownership of intellectual property is clearly delineated as follows:

- MD owns all technical implementations, including HW/SW architectures and written code.  
- Clients or partners own their respective design concepts, artistic visions, and project ideas.  
- Reuse, adaptation, or commercialization of MD’s technical assets requires written consent or a defined license agreement.  
- Clients may integrate MD’s technology into their products and resell those products so long as the core MD components remain unmodified.  

Any derivative works, modifications, or re-engineered products based on MD’s intellectual property must be subject to formal licensing review before publication, commercialization, or redistribution.

***

### 5. Legal and Operational Independence

MD operates from its own legal and administrative entity registered in the Netherlands (KVK-nummer 87782324) and retains full autonomy in its decision-making, partnerships, and product delivery processes.  
MD’s operations are self-contained, and collaboration with other entities does not imply transfer or dilution of ownership rights.  

All activities are governed by Dutch commercial and intellectual property law. All disputes or claims arising from or related to MD projects shall be resolved under the jurisdiction of the competent courts in Eindhoven, the Netherlands.

***

### 6. Project Governance and Future Development

Each project under MD’s responsibility must include clear definitions regarding ownership, licensing, and usage before development begins. Key operational principles include:

- Formalization of project scope and compensation before work starts.  
- Signing of written agreements for commissioned projects.  
- Adherence to the Monada Dominion License or another contractually approved license.  
- MD’s right to reuse or portfolio-reference its realized work.  
- Clients’ right to further develop concepts independently within agreed legal boundaries.  

MD fosters innovation and collaboration but maintains clear boundaries between design vision (client domain) and technical realization (MD domain).

***

### 7. Transparency and Public Access

This operational policy is publicly accessible to ensure transparency in MD’s professional and commercial activities. It defines the foundation for fair and lawful cooperation between MD and its collaborators.  
Changes or updates to this policy will be reflected in this repository and versioned accordingly.

***

**Monada Dominion (MD)**  
Registered Address: Eindhoven, The Netherlands  
KVK-nummer: 87782324  
Contact: monadadominion@proton.me  
Official License: Monada Dominion Custom License (MD-CL)  

***

